Jack Mulvihill
Dr. Konstantin Läufer
COMP 371 Section 001
14 November 2025

    The F-algebra approach used in this project improves modifiability as adding new behaviors
only requires defining a new algebraic formula without having to modify the existing code. Reusability
improves because the algebras are pure, composable functions that can be combined using categorical
operators. Maintainability works with modifiability and reusability as the code for the F-algebra 
approach is a lot more concise. Integrability also improves because of the separation of structure 
from recursion, allowing independent development of each concern.
    Ease of creation favors the original functional approach in Project 2A as the abstract algebraic 
data types might not be as intuitive, especially for the less mathematically inclined. Portability
is also reduced as the F-algebra based approach depends on specialized libraries such as Cats and 
Droste to function that might not be available in other languages whereas the original functional
approach uses only standard language features that can be replicated anywhere. 

    Using foldRight would traverse the tree in a specific order accumulating results sequentially.
This would work for size and depth as shapes could be counted one at a time regardless of order.
However, foldRight would not work for boundingBox because boundingBox requires processing the child
nodes before parent nodes. The foldRight function processes shapes in traversal order, not dependency
order.
    Using cata solves this by guaranteeing bottom-up evaluation as child nodes are always processed
before the parent nodes. The foldRight function is better for applications where order matters but
structure does not.

    Something I found interesting is how much more concise the code is in this approach than in Project 2A. 
I never would have considered implementing the behavior for a graphics library using algebraic expressions 
but after some reflection it makes a lot of sense because at the end of the day shapes are represented 
by a bunch of points plotted on a coordinate grid. Use of this approach ultimately depends on the needs of 
the developers, whether they need to prioritize ease of upkeep or ease of application and understanding.